Corporate Sustainable Disclosure and Tax Behavior: A meta-Analysis

The association between corporate sustainable disclosure (CSD) and tax behavior (TB) is theoretically and empirically unclear. This study performs a standard meta-analysis and synthesizes the empirical-quantitative results regarding the CSD – TB connection and vice versa, following several hypothetical and credible research designs developed by Hunter and Schmidt. To obtain the sample for this analysis, various international literature databases were selected as search tools using keywords relevant to our research interest. Additionally, to collect documents with substantive, methodological and content relevance, several criteria were employed. As a result of this process, the final dataset includes 50 studies during the last eleven years (2012- 2022). The findings reveal that the CSD-tax link is not significant enough for practical purposes. Furthermore, an analysis of moderating variables shows either no or a little association between the constructs, suggesting that organizations are decoupling CSD from taxation policies. Academic community has not yet examined the sources of variation or factors that might moderate the effect sizes under investigation. This paper fills this gap and assists scholars and especially PhD candidates to gain an in-depth understanding of the magnitude and direction of the effect sizes with precision, offering more reliable and generalizable conclusions. In terms of limitations, the meta-analysis is based on the availability of the existing corpus of knowledge and consists only of empirical studies with Pearson correlation coefficients and standardized beta coefficients.
